COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=Editors for Linux.
DATE=2003-08-15 15:21:23-05:00 (CDT)
POSTID=95
CATEGORIES=computers-code;

For a while, I've been upset at the sorry state of emacs. It is not [HIG-compliant](http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gup/hig/), and it doesn't use anti-aliased fonts. It is really a pain to remap all of the keybindings for emacs. And when you have three or more buffers open, it's a pain to switch between them.

So I've decided to abandon the one true editor.

First candidate for Hal's new editor: **vim**. I quickly dropped that when I realized that I didn't want to learn a whole new set of arcane keybindings.

Candidate 2: **gedit**. The default editor for my desktop of choice: Gnome. It has anti-aliased fonts and tabs, which I like, but lacks any other useful features.

Candidate 3: [**beaver**](http://eturquin.free.fr/beaver/). Beaver is a gtk+ editor that tries to be exactly what I want. It has tabs, syntax highlighting, gtk2 toolkit, and anti-aliased fonts. But it's still rough around the edges. I think it really wants to be adopted by the Gnome project.

Candidate 4: **kate**. Kate is the advanced editor for KDE. I don't really like KDE as much as Gnome, but ome of tha apps are okay. KDE has one great feature that is integreated into all of its apps: network transparency. At the command line, I can type

```
kate ftp://XXX@halcanary.org/public\_html/index.cgi
```

or

```
kate sftp://ups.physics.wisc.edu/home/hal/note-.txt
```

and it asks for a password and opens up the document in a local window. This is _beautiful_. It also has really good syntax highlighting. It does not have tabs, but it is easy to switch between buffers with alt-rightarrow and alt-leftarrow. It's also easy to edit the keybindings. I just made ctrl-w an alternate for close, and ctrl-\[shift\]-tab for forward\[backward\].

Also note that KDE is the desktop on Knoppix. Anywhere I can stick in a Knoppix CD, I can use kate to edit files locally.
