AUTHOR=Hal Canary
COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=Installing Wordpress with MySQL
DATE=2004-08-24 21:42:49-05:00 (CDT)
POSTID=309
CATEGORIES=computers-code;

> Definitions:
> 
> Wordpress
> 
> WordPress is a state-of-the-art semantic personal publishing  
> platform with a focus on aesthetics, web standards, and  
> usability. Uses PHP and MySQL. Licenced under the GPL.
> 
> MySQL
> 
> The MySQL database server is the world's most popular open  
> source database. It is released under the GPL.

In a properly configured Fedora/Redhat system you can install MySQL with yum. You'll need atleast the following packages: mysql-server, mysql, and **php-mysql**, as well as php and httpd. Assuming that your web server is already set up and working with php.

    $ sudo yum install mysql-server mysql php-mysql

(Restart httpd after installing php-mysql.) With a fresh install of mysql, you'll need to start the server daemon and set things up.

    
    $ sudo /sbin/service httpd restart
    $ sudo /sbin/service mysqld start
    $ sudo /sbin/chkconfig --level 35 mysqld on
    

The mysql "root" password is initially blank, so don't worry and hit return if it prompts you:

    
    $ mysqladmin -u root -p password 'pick_a_good_password'
    $ mysql -u root -p
    mysql> CREATE DATABASE wordpress;
    mysql> GRANT ALL ON wordpress.*
           TO wordpress_user@localhost
           IDENTIFIED BY 'pick_another_good_password';
    

Now you are set. Write down that info:

    
        WORDPRESS INFO:
    Database Name : wordpress
    User Name     : wordpress_user
    Password      : pick_another_good_password
    Database Host : localhost
    Table Prefix  : wp1_
    

Now, download the latest version from: [http://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz](http://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz) . Then as a user with write access to /var/www/html, do:

    
    $ cd /var/www/html
    $ wget -nv http://wordpress.org/latest.tar.gz
    $ tar xzf latest.tar.gz
    

Then it should be as simple as pointing your browser to [http://localhost/wordpress/wp-admin/install.php](http://localhost/wordpress/wp-admin/install.php) snd going from there.

**UPDATE: 2004-08-27** How I installed Wordpress on halcanary.org.

Since I already had a MySQL database set up, I just had to choose a uniqe prefix. Movable Type tables use the prefix mt\_. So I set my Wordpress prefix to wp1\_. Here are the tables used by both programs, according to phpMyAdmin:

    
    mt_author	wp1_categories
    mt_blog		wp1_comments
    mt_category	wp1_linkcategories
    mt_comment	wp1_links
    mt_entry	wp1_optiongroup_options
    mt_ipbanlist	wp1_optiongroups
    mt_log		wp1_options
    mt_notification	wp1_optiontypes
    mt_permission	wp1_optionvalues
    mt_placement	wp1_post2cat
    mt_plugindata	wp1_postmeta
    mt_tbping	wp1_posts
    mt_template	wp1_users
    mt_templatemap
    mt_trackback
    

I'm getting ahead of myself. Before I got that far, I unpacked the wordpress tarball locally, used a gui ftp program to recursivly copy over the directory. I renamed ~/public\_html/wordpress/ to ~/public\_html/wp/ for brevity's sake. I then had to change the permission mode on that directory to 777 so that the install program could make the wp-config.php file. Then I made a ~/public\_html/b/ directory and copied index.php from the wp/ directory there. This way my permlinks will be to https://halcanary.org/b/, and not to https://halcanary.org/wp/.

Then I browsed to http://halcanary/wp/ and did the setup.
