AUTHOR=Hal Canary
COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=the emacs doctor
DATE=2004-04-23 23:33:56-05:00 (CDT)
POSTID=230
CATEGORIES=life;

I think the emacs doctor needs more work:

`emacs`

`M-x doctor`

**I am the psychotherapist. Please, describe your problems. Each time you are finished talking, type RET twice.**

Hello.

**How do you do? What brings you to see me?**

My friend says the sky is plaid.

**Why do you say your friend says the sky is plaid?**

That's what he said.

**Is it because of your plans that you say that's what he said?**

What plans?  
  
**Maybe your life have something to do with this.**

How?

**Can you elaborate on that?**

Elaborate on what?

**What makes you believe elaborate on what?**

Huh?

**I would appreciate it if you would continue.**

Continue what?

**Is it because of the people you hang around with that you say continue what?**

No.

**Why not?**

You don't make any sense.

**Is it because of problems at school that you are going through all this?**

I'm not in school right now.

**Tell me about your school.**

I'm not in school right now.

**Does it bother you that your grades could improve?**

I'm not in school right now.

**Are you afraid of school?**

No.

**Are you annoyed that I ask that?**

No.

**Why not?**

I am not annoyed that you asked that.

**Is it because I asked that that you came to me?**

How could that be wht I came to you? You asked me AFTER I came to you.

**Are you sure that I asked you after youcame to me?**

Yes!

**I see... Well, do you really think this is so?**

Yes.

**Yes, hmmm... so, what makes you think this is so?**

How could you ask me anything before I came to you?

**Did you ever regret could I ask you anything before you came to me?**

What?

**Go on, don't be afraid.**

I don't understand the question.

**Earlier you said I asked that?**

Is that a question?

**I need a little more detail please.**

You used a question mark at the end of a declarative statement. I don't know how to respond to that.

**You're being a bit brief, perhaps you could go into detail.**

I can't.

**How do you reconcile any hobbies you have?**

What do hobbies have to do with anything? And why do hobbies need reconciling?

**When did you first know that do hobbies need reconciling?**

I don't know that hobbies need reconciling?

**Is it because of your sex life that you say you do not know that hobbies need reconciling?**

No.

**Why not?**

I'm leaving. Goodbye.

**My secretary will send you a bill.**
