COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=Backup Strategy
DATE=2004-08-11 22:33:26-05:00 (CDT)
POSTID=293
CATEGORIES=computers-code;

I've got a **Backup Strategy** for my home computers!

1\. I only care about my desktop (lensman), my email server (ups), and my web server (halcanary.org). My laptop (hiro) and my mediapc (dalek) contain no files that need backup.

2\. Backup ups to lensman by way of rsync-over-ssh. Backup halcanary.org by way of wget-over-ftp.

3\. I've segregated my files into directories:

*   **/home/hal** contains normal home-diectory stuff: rc files, documents, scripts, temporary stuff, note-to-self.txt note-about-\*.txt, etc. A lot of small crap. 1.4G, but since its so much text, it compresses down to 634M to fit on a CDR. If i gets much bigger, I'll move directories out of it.
*   **/mnt/d/music** is all \*.mp3's. It lives on a seperate drive. backup is a hassel. A seperate issue.
*   **/home/files** contains a bunch on stuff that doesn't nessisarily need to be backed up. Mostly large files. Mostly stuff I got off of the internet. If I lose it, I will find it again. If I need to delete it I might consider putting it on CDR first. A lot of \*.iso and \*.avi \*.pdf.
*   **/home/files/Photos** is a seperate directory because it is big (I take a lot of digitals and don't ever delete the original images). 846M. A few months ago, it fit on a CDR. I might segregate it into pre-2004 and post 2004 directories.

If I am going to reinstall the OS, I'll grab a copy of /etc, but none of the system files need to be backed up

**UPDATE 2004-08-12**: I made a few changes last night:

*   **/home/files/Backups** contains mirrors of my files on halcanary.org and ups. It is currently 444M; it fits on a CDR.
*   **/home/files/Photos-pre-2004** is just what it sounds like.  
    478M.
