COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=done.
DATE=2006-07-06 20:11:19-05:00 (CDT)
POSTID=616
CATEGORIES=life;

I am now moved in to the place I'm staying in Florida. About two-thirds of my possessions are in a storage. It took me about 24 hours to unload everything. It took me about 48 hours to drive the 1450+ miles.

This is the route I took to get here: I-90 E / I-39 S / I-55 S / I-74 E / I-57 S / I-24 E / I-75 S. It was fairly direct. I did have to go over the mountain near Sewanee, TN, but the truck made it up and down without melting.

> _One of the most notoriously hazardous stretches of Interstate highway in the United States is approximately 40 miles (64 km) west of Chattanooga on I-24 in Monteagle, Tennessee, where the highway goes over the Cumberland Plateau. Compared to grades elsewhere, Monteagle's 4 to 6% grade does not come close to the steepest highway roads (Interstate 40 between Nashville and Knoxville features 5% grades in each direction), but the slope is protracted over a distance of several miles. While all motorists need to exercise caution, truckers are particularly vexed by Monteagle, and many have died going through this area.\[citation needed\] The east bound lanes feature several runaway truck ramps where a truck with no brakes can exit into a long pit full of loose gravel to safely stop. This dangerous stretch of highway inspired Johnny Cash to write a song about Monteagle Mountain._
> 
> _Another interesting tidbit about the Monteagle grade is that it sports the widest "median" of any Interstate highway. There's more than a mile between the eastbound and westbound lanes at one point. The eastbound lanes descend the mountain on one side of a ridge, while the westbound lanes ascend on the other side of the ridge._
> 
> [Source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interstate_24)

It is hot here in Florida in the summer. The solution is to (1) simply stay out of the sun or (2) Jump in the pool for five minutes after every hour of work.

That said, I might prefer Florida summers to Wisconsin winters.

Tomorrow, I think I'm going sailing with my father. This weekend my extended family will get to town for a one week vacation. After that I will go get a job.
