AUTHOR=Hal Canary
COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=Firefox Addons
DATE=2007-06-25 09:17:51-05:00 (CDT)
POSTID=695
CATEGORIES=computers-code;

Favorite Firefox Addons:

**[Go Up](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/1677)**

> Lets you go "up" a level in the current website via the provided toolbar button, or by pressing Alt+Up arrow. The "up" is determined by trimming the last section of the URL, e.g. example.org/foo/somepage.html becomes example.org/foo/

I don't use this much, but it does come in handy every so often.

**[Flashblock](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/433)**

> Flashblock is an extension for the Mozilla, Firefox, and Netscape browsers that takes a pessimistic approach to dealing with Macromedia Flash content on a webpage and blocks ALL Flash content from loading. It then leaves placeholders on the webpage that allow you to click to download and then view the Flash content.

This is a lifesaver. Try moving your mouse cursor over a piece of flash, then hitting the page-down key. Nothing happens, unless the flash is blocked.

**[MM3-ProxySwitch](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/2648)**

> In the Firefox Browser (and other Mozilla programs) you can per default configure only the setting for one internet connection. With the MM3-ProxySwitch you can manage different configurations and simply switch over between these.

I use this one on my laptop for managing proxies.

**[FullerScreen](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/4650)**

> This extension enhances the Full Screen mode into a really full screen mode, hiding the remaining toolbars and statusbar and making them visible again when the mouse pointer hits an edge of the screen.
> 
> It also offers a slideshow mode, enabling @projection CSS rules in a document when full screen mode is turned on. Navigation between slides in implemented in the extension and a slide manager showing thumbnails for the slides is available through shift-F11.

I'm still trying this out, but it seems like a good idea.
