AUTHOR=Hal Canary
COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=year in movies
DATE=2007-12-02 23:17:39-06:00 (CST)
POSTID=709
CATEGORIES=movies;

Netflix keeps a record of what you've rented. That makes reviews easier:

\===THE YEAR IN RENTAL DVDs 2007===

Hot Fuzz - loved it. May have to buy it at some point.

Stranger than Fiction - was okay. Don't need to see it again.

Reign Over Me - liked it. Kind of depressing, but good.

Black Snake Moan - still can't decide on this one. It may be a horrible movie, but I watched the whole thing.

300 - eh. Too full of itself.

Heroes: Season 1: Disc 1 - didn't like it. Uninteresting characters. No narrative hook.

Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - not so good the second time through.

Howl's Moving Castle - very good. Can't believed I waited iuntil this year to watch it.

Who Killed the Electric Car? - I want an electric car.

Shopgirl - Eh. Clair Danes needs to play a new charater once in a while.

Charlie and the Chocolate Factory - don't need to see this one twice. Was okay.

Children of Men - good movie. A little depressing.

MirrorMask - okay.

The Queen - okay.

Borat - awful. Had to send back mostly unwatched.

Running with Scissors - not that interesting.

Seven Years in Tibet - I liked it. Don't need to see it again.

When the Levees Broke: A Requiem in Four Acts - well done. I recomend it. But don't need to see it again.

Clerks 2 - unnessisary sequil.

The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai - I can't believe I hadn't seen it before. Wonderful.

Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby - Eh. Not that great.

The Island - I liked it. Good movie.
