COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=icecast+liveice
DATE=2008-12-22 08:43:49
POSTID=755
CATEGORIES=computers-code;

Setting up icecast+liveice so I can stream music from my PC to the internet. A simple

    sudo apt-get install -y liveice icecast-server

installs the software. Use

    makepasswd --crypt

to make a password and a hash of that password for the icecast server. Edit the /etc/icecast/icecast.conf to put the hashed password in there. Set port, hostname, and server\_name. I used my dyndns hostname for my server name and used 8888 for my port. I was sure to open that port on my firewall and forward it on my nat/router. Restart the server with

    sudo /etc/init.d/icecast-server start

Check the logs with

    tail -f /var/log/icecast/icecast.log

That will let you know if you have password errors connecting to the icecast server.

Now edit the file $HOME/.liveice.cfg by starting with the example found on the internets. Some of the values I put in are:

    SERVER localhost
    PORT 8888
    X_AUDIOCAST_LOGIN
    PASSWORD XXXXXXXXXXXX
    MOUNTPOINT /x
    NO_SOUNDCARD
    MIXER
    PLAYLIST /home/hal/playlist.pl

Be sure to set all the values, not just the ones I listed.

    #!/bin/sh
    # $HOME/bin/startliveice.sh
    # DTPD
    DIR="/d/music/"
    find "${DIR}" -name '*.mp3' \
      | ${HOME}/bin/randomize-list.py \
      > ${HOME}/playlist.pl
    exec liveice -F ${HOME}/.liveice.cfg \
      2> /dev/null

Now you're ready to start the liveice program. Read /usr/share/doc/liveice/README.liveice.gz to find out the commands for the curses frontend.

Check that it's working with

    mplayer -quiet -cache 32 http://127.0.0.1:8888/x

If I'm broadcasting, check me at at

    http://halcanary.dyndns.org:8888/x
