AUTHOR=Hal Canary
COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=Economic Badness
DATE=2009-09-16 11:42:54-05:00 (CDT)
POSTID=815
CATEGORIES=economics;manifesto;top

We may be out of the recession (in that gross domestic product is no longer
shrinking), but with a growing population, people delaying retirement because
investments failed, and increases in productivity (GDP-per-worker) unemployment
rates will continue inching upward. The stimulus package was not big enough to
return us to full employment. So once the stimulus spends itself out next year,
we may be in worse shape.

What do we need to do?

1.  Fix the fundamental issues with our economy.

    1.a) Encourage energy efficiency with a Pigovian tax on carbon emissions. This
    will reduce energy imports, help our trade deficit, and bring jobs home.
    Instituting a border carbon tax adjustment will help.

    1.b) Keep health-care from rising more. Subsidize health-care for the lower-
    middle class. Regulate health insurance to get rid of the preexisting condition
    unfairness. Nationalize the insurance companies if they refuse to play nice.

    1.c) Insure the insurers. Just like the FDIC insures banks and charges a
    premium to pay for potential bailout costs, do the same for insurance
    companies. Call it the Federal Insurance Insurance Corporation (FIIC). So even
    in the worst disasters, where insurance companies can go bankrupt, there would
    be an institution that can step in and make things right. The FIIC would refuse
    to re- insure a company like AIG , keeping it from becoming too-big-to-fail.

    1.d) Get serious about other reforms of the financial markets. Does the
    financial system really deserve to make such huge profits? Do they add that
    much value to the economy as a whole? You will know that a financial system is
    properly regulated when investment bankers make the same salary as an
    accountant.

2.  Continue with the monetary stimulus until we see real indications of
    inflation. So far, there are no indications, so we are not printing cash fast
    enough.

3.  A new fiscal stimulus bill big enough to close the unemployment gap within
    12 months. If we paid people to dig ditches and fill them back in, that would
    have the desired effect, but we can do better. Let us invest in more
    energy-efficiency projects, like the cash-for-guzzlers program. Let us start
    with a high-speed rail from Miami to Montréal. I know it is not shovel- ready,
    but it could be if we threw enough dollars and workers at it.

4.  I have said it before: Short-term cyclic deficits are good, long-term
    systemic deficits are bad. We need to get rid of the our systemic deficit. I do
    not think we can reign in spending. Left-wing Democrats have got to realize
    that we have to be the world's policeman and that is not going to be cheap. And
    Republics should (but will not) admit that wars and defense spending must be
    paid for with taxes on the rich. Running a federal deficit during the bubble
    years was inexcusable. In fact, higher taxes would have kept the bubble in
    check, to some extent. So we should immediately pass higher taxes on the
    highest bracket, along with a provision that they will be automatically reduced
    to current levels for as long as national unemployment is over 6%.

([discussion](http://hwc.livejournal.com/99099.html))
