AUTHOR=Hal Canary
COPYRIGHT=Copyright Hal Canary / ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TITLE=Obit
DATE=2019-04-06 18:13:09-04:00 (EDT)
POSTID=3012
CATEGORIES=family;obituary
SUMMARY=This month marks a year since my father passed away.  For posterity, here is his obituary.

>   **Hal Winchester Canary**  
>   July 12, 1943 – April 25, 2018
>
>   Hal Winchester Canary, 73, of Raleigh, North Carolina, and originally from
>   Memphis, Tennessee, died on April 25 at 4:55 p.m.
>
>   Hal grew up in Memphis and attended Central High School, where he met his
>   future wife, Kathy Carroll. He finished high school at Columbia Military
>   Academy in 1961, and received both a Bachelor of Science and a Masters in
>   Business Administration at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, in 1966 and
>   1970. He then became a Certified Public Accountant.
>
>   Hal married Kathy in 1965.
>
>   Hal served in the United States Army from 1965 to 1969, in the XVIII Airborne
>   Corps, 12th Support Brigade, at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, as a First
>   Lieutenant, Quartermaster Corps. He received the Army Commendation Medal.
>
>   After business school, Hal worked as an accountant at Ernst & Young and Haines
>   & Jackson, in Memphis. Hal served as the Finance Director of the City of
>   Germantown, Tennessee, from from 1979 to 1990. He received the Government
>   Finance Officers Association's Award For Excellence in Municipal Debt
>   Management. After leaving Germantown, Hal founded Canary Consulting to provide
>   financial advice to businesses and governments. From 1993 to 1994, Hal served
>   as Finance Director at the Virginia Beach City Public Schools. In 1996 he
>   joined Public Financial Management, where he retired as a Managing Director in
>   2009.
>
>   Hal and his wife Kathy moved from Memphis to Fort Myers, Florida, in 2000. Hal
>   enjoyed sailing and golfing in his retirement. In 2015, Hal and Kathy moved to
>   Raleigh to be closer to their grandchildren.
>
>   Hal was the Treasurer and a member of the Vestry at Grace-St. Luke's Church in
>   Memphis. He was active as adult leader in the Boy Scouts of America. He was a
>   member of the American Institute of CPAs, the Society of CPAs, the Florida
>   Institute of CPAs, the Government Finance Officers Association, the Tennessee
>   GFOA, and the Florida GFOA.
>
>   Hal is survived by his wife of more than 50 years, Kathy Carroll Canary, his
>   sister Lucy Canary Church of Charlottesville, Virginia, his son Hal W. Canary,
>   III, of Durham, North Carolina, and two grandchildren, Margaret and Thaddeus
>   Canary.
>
>   A memorial service was held on May 1, at the Springmoor Retirement Community
>   auditorium, in Raleigh.  Hal's ashes were interred at Memorial Park Cemetery in
>   Memphis, Tennessee, on July 13.
>
>   One may make a donation in Hal’s memory to the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society
>   ([lls.org](http://www.lls.org/)).
