COPYRIGHT=Copyright 2002-2023 Hal Canary. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
AUTHOR=Hal Canary
DATE=2023-10-23 13:03:32-04:00 (EDT)
POSTID=3039
TITLE=Can the US House of Representatives function without a speaker or with a speaker with limited power?
CATEGORIES=politics
SUMMARY=A way to let the house pass any bill that gets enough votes, without leadership involement. 

Can the US House of Representatives function without a speaker or with a
speaker with limited power?

Expanding on [a previous thought](https://halcanary.org/vv/2012/08/10/1297/).

The house should adopt a new method of passing laws & resolutions:

-   There will be a server that anyone can read from and any member of the
    house can upload a proposed law to.

-   Any bill that passes the Senate is immediately uploaded to the server
    without modification.

-   The text of the bill will then be hashed to produce a cryptographic
    checksum used to identify a law.

-   Any member can amend (modify) a bill, which produces a new identifier.

-   Any member can vote in favor of any bill (identified by checksum)
    electronicly via secure methods.  That vote is public.

-   Any member may un-vote for a bill they have already voted for via the same
    procedure.  This action also goes into the public record.

-   If a bill gets 218 (=floor(N/2)+1) votes in favor (at the same time), it is
    passed the house and sent to the Senate.

-   Bills are deprecated at the end of the term.  There may be other ways of
    deprecating a bill.


