COPYRIGHT=Copyright 2002-2023 Hal Canary. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
AUTHOR=Hal Canary
DATE=2023-10-23 12:33:38-04:00 (EDT)
POSTID=3038
TITLE=“Rule number one, never carry anything you don’t control.”
CATEGORIES=technology;security;;openSource
SUMMARY=On using networked computers you don't understand.

“Rule number one, never carry anything you don’t control.”  (See _Andor_.)

How would one follow this advice in this world?

One would need only computers with a 100% open source stack.  Including hardware.

Imagine starting with a mass-produced phone-sized touchscreen and battery that
contained zero processors.  You would then build a computer that plugs into
that and screws onto the back.  That would be your smartphone. You control all
processors.

Imagine a RaspberryPi-Zero-style RISC-V computer that was 100% open on every
integrated circuit.  you could use that as the core of your fully-secure
smartphone.

You would need to reverse-engineer a bunch of currently-opaque hardware that's
hidden in special-purpose chips.  E.g. cell network antenna drivers.

I would also build the hardware such that a led lights up whenever a camera or
microphone is enabled, without the ability to change that in software.

And the software stack would need to be controlled by a non-profit with a long
history of respecting users.  Maybe Debian?  I'd love just to have a phone that
runs Debian!

It looks like there are several raspberryPi-based phone designs out there.  My
main problem with that is that it uses processors made by Broadcom Inc.  These
system-on-a-chip processors are wonderful technology, but the hardware is
closed-source, and has closed-source firmware and graphics drivers.

Discuss: <https://mastodon.sdf.org/@hal_canary/109710865869979581>
