COPYRIGHT=Copyright 2002-2023 Hal Canary. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
AUTHOR=Hal Canary
DATE=2024-12-20 12:16:35-05:00 (EST)
POSTID=3047
TITLE=Kathy Canary's Obituary
CATEGORIES=family;obituary
SUMMARY=My mother passed away last week.

>  **Kathryn (Kathy) Carroll Canary**  
>  January 13, 1943 – December 13, 2024
>
>  Born Kathryn Ann Carroll on January 13, 1943, in Wilmington, North
>  Carolina, to David Shields Carroll (1917–1992) and Mary Kathryn
>  (McGuire) Carroll (1918–1960), Kathy Canary passed away on December
>  13, 2024, in Raleigh, North Carolina. Kathy grew up in Memphis,
>  Tennessee, and moved several times, living in Virginia, Florida, and
>  North Carolina. She held a bachelor's degree in Elementary Education
>  from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. She married Hal
>  Winchester Canary (1943–2018) in 1966, they were married 52 happy
>  years with their only child born in 1978.
>
>  Kathy will be remembered for the joy she found in teaching and
>  volunteering. She was a talented artist and enjoyed painting
>  landscapes, botanicals, and abstracts. She adored her son,
>  granddaughter, and grandson.
>
>  Kathy is survived by her siblings David S. Carroll, Jr, of Memphis,
>  Tennessee, and Elizabeth (Carroll) Busch of Burke, Virginia, as well
>  as her son Hal W. Canary, III, of Durham, North Carolina, and
>  grandchildren Margaret R. Canary and Thaddeus W. Canary.
>
>  A visitation followed by a burial service will be held at Memorial
>  Park Cemetery (5667 Poplar Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee) on Saturday
>  January 18, 2025, at 12:30 and 1:30 p.m. One may make a donation in
>  Kathy's memory to Arts For Life of North Carolina
>  ([artsforlifenc](https://artsforlifenc.org/)).
